The next service that we want to build is called tokens.
Tokens are going to be the authentication mechanism for this application.
Rather than sending a user's phone number and password with each requests and over orderto
authenticate them,
we're just going to have them create a token with their phone number and password and then
use that token for any subsequent requests that would require authentication.
So let's go ahead and create a token service on the router.
Go back to index dot Js scroll down and we're going to add tokens,
which is handlers dot tokens and before forget within our data folder.
We should also create a tokens sub border the same way that we did for users here.
So I'm going to make the directory data tokens,
and that will be where all the tokens get stored.
Okay,
Now I'm gonna go back to handlers,
and we have to create a whole bunch of tokens handlers.
We want to go about this in the same way that we did for users where there is going to be a
blanket handler that grabs all requests coming into tokens and then checks it against
acceptable methods and relays it onto wherever it needs to go.
So I'm actually going to copy the handlers users and start the tokens handlers with the
same basic scaffolding.
So call rename this tokens.
Rename it handlers dot tokens is going to have the same acceptable methods post get put and
elite.
And it should instead of relaying to the users sub methods,
it should relate to the tokens of methods in the same way.
Now we need to create,
although some methods.
So first,
that's great.
A container.
Now we can create some methods on this container.
We'll go ahead and do ghost get put delete Do handlers tokens post because function that
takes a data at a call back.
No,
I'm just gonna copy this Or to be more times,
change this one to get change this one to put and change this one to delete.
So let's go ahead and start building the actual post service.
But this one we're going to say that the required data is going to be phone and password
because remember,
this is a user creating a token that they're going to use subsequently later.
And so we do need the phone number and the password in order to create a token for them.
The optional data is none.
So let's go ahead and Parsi phone number and the password the same way that we did in the
user's handlers.
So let's go ahead and just steal it from there.
From handlers.
Users Post.
We want the phone and password the exact same way.
So we have the phone and password and then we want to say if phone and password continue on
,
otherwise we're going to call back and error to the user.
Call that 400 tell them that the error is missing.
Required fields.
OK,
but if they do have a phone number and a password,
then we want to first look up the user who matches that phone number,
and then we're going to have to take some more steps to match that user against the
password that was sent.
But first we just need to look them up.
So we're gonna say data read this time we're reading from the user's collection with the
phone number provided,
and they're gonna call back and air and hopefully some user data.
If there is not an air and there is user data we're going to continue.
Otherwise we're going to call back in error to the user.
400 here could not find the specified user,
but if everything was valid now we have the user's data,
and we need to check the password that was sent against the hashed password that stored.
So we need to first hash the password and before we can compare it to the string that
started the Jason file.
So we want to hash the scent password and compare it to the password stored in the user up
.
So in this case,
we want to use pretty much the same logic that we did in post users of our hash password
equals helpers.
That hash password.
Pace that down here.
Now we want to say if hash password equals user data dot hash password,
then we have a match.
We have a phone number and a password match.
If it doesn't equal that,
we gotta error out to the user.
They cannot create a token unless they provide the right password.
So we're gonna call back a 400 tell them air password did not match the specified users
stored password,
But if the hash password did match.
Then we can go ahead and create a new token for that user that they can use for subsequent
requests.
We want to say,
if valid,
create a new token with a random name.
Sit expiration date one hour in the future.
So we want to say that the token I D.
Is helpers create random string with a length of 20.
Now you don't know what helpers dot create random string is yet because we have not created
that.
But we will come back to that in just second.
Let's just say,
for argument's sake that calling this function gives you a random string of letters and of
the length 20.
And so that's going to be the I.
D of the new token that we just created.
And we want to say that this expires now,
plus one hour.
So 1000 milliseconds times 60 seconds in a minute time.
60 minutes in an hour.
Now we want to store the new token I d.
And the expires field as a token of so the token object that needs to be persisted to disk
is gonna have three keys phone,
which equals phone I D which he calls the token I D and expires which ecause the time it
expires.
So anyone looking at this token Comptel which user it's for by looking at phone,
it can uniquely identify this token and it will know when it can no longer be used.
We want to actually store the token.
So we're gonna call data create this time we're gonna call the Tokens Collection,
and we're gonna name this new file the same as token I d.
We're gonna save the data as token object,
and we're gonna get back in there.
We want to continue on if there is no air and call back 200 the token object that we saved
.
If there is an air,
however,
we want Teoh call back 500 because it's our fault to the air equals could not create the
new token for some reason.
All right,
so that's how you post two tokens.
But now we have to create this function named create Random String.
So let's go to the helpers file.
We want to create a function that allows us to create a string of random Alfa Merrick
characters of a given length.
That's me called helpers create random string.
The other thing that accepts is a string length.
Let's go ahead and sanity.
Check the string length.
When it comes in,
we're going to say that String Ling should be a number and should be greater than zero.
Otherwise,
we default divorce.
If it is a strangling,
we continue.
Otherwise we're gonna go ahead and returned false.
But if there is a string length greater than zero,
we want to define all the possible characters that could go into a strength we're going to
save our possible characters equals.
Then we're going to just list every letter in the alphabet and zero through nine.
So a B C D E f g h i j k l M N o p Q r S T U V w x Y z and then 0123456789 That's a whole
bunch of characters.
We want to start the stream as an empty strength.
We're going to go through a four loop over and over and over again until we reach our
required length and upend a random character out of the possible character string to our
new string over and over again until it is a string of random characters of the length that
we need.
Okay,
so we're gonna say four equals one is smaller,
then string length it looks,
plus get random character from the possible characters string and then a pen,
this character to the final string.
So we're gonna say that random character equals something,
and then we're going to append that to the string that we started building.
All right,
So how do we get a random character?
We're going to say that the possible characters char at math dot floor math,
Random times,
possible characters.
So in other words,
we're going to grab a random number in between the first position and the last position of
the possible character string.
And then we're going to grab the actual character at that position.
Now that we have a character,
we have headed it to the string and what's we exit that four loop.
We're going to return the final strength.
So I returned strength.
All right,
Now that the helper exists,
the create random string token,
I d should happen just fine.
So let's go ahead and start the app and see if we can use it to create a token for one of
the users we created before.
All right,
I'm gonna go back to Postman.
I'm gonna look at one of the things that I sent before.
See which users still exist.
We still have a user call in 568 When we created that guy,
we created him with this phone number and this password.
So I'm going to create a new request.
Two local host 3000 tokens.
It's going to be a post with the same phone number and same password.
And in theory,
this should give me a token back.
All right,
I got a token back.
It expires at this time.
It has this I d.
And it is for the phone number I asked for.
I should be able to do it again and get a different one.
You can see that has a different I.
D.
And a slightly later expires Time.
If I simply wrong password like I misspelled it and said it long.
I get 400 bad requests.
The password did not match the specified users stored password.
But if I fix my air,
everything works fine again,
and I can keep on creating new tokens for this user as much as I want.
If we go back to the tokens folder,
we can see that all these tokens now exist on the file system with their different I DS and
expires times and that the name of their files is the same as the I DS.
So that is tokens dot post Now we can move on to tokens dot Get tokens get is going to be a
fairly simple service very similar to users.
Get We're going to say that the required data is just a i d.
Optional data is none.
The first thing you want to do is check that the i d that they sent is valid.
We're going to get the i.
D.
From the query string object that the users sent.
So I'm gonna grab the last time that we grab something off of the query string and really
just copy this Whole users get function because we get tokens is going to be similar as
well.
I want to change phone toe i d.
So query string object.
I d equals string and I d trim length should actually equal 20 because that was the length
of the random strings that we created.
And then we want to continue on if there is an i d.
If there's not an I d.
We want to have the same error missing required fields.
Now we want to look up the token,
not the user.
So data read to the token service and we identify the file by D Air or token data should
come back.
So if there is no air and there is token data will continue here.
Otherwise,
we will call back before four.
Here.
We don't need to remove any hash password,
cause the token data doesn't include that.
We want to call back 200 the token data.
And before I continue on,
I just want to fix this typo.
It's the tokens collection,
not the token.
Singular.
All right,
let's start up the app and see if we can get this.
Get to work.
All right,
Now I'm gonna go back and look at one of the post two tokens that I just did Resend it to
get a new token.
I d.
Now I'm going to create a new request that doesn't get two tokens.
Where the query String equals I d equals that new I d and send it off and I get back this
new payload so get seem to be working fine.
If I change the i d so that it is now something that doesn't exist in the file system,
we'll get back before before.
Okay,
so gets are working fine.
And now we can move on to tokens Put tokens put are going to have to required fields i D
and extend.
That will make more sense once you understand that there's really no reason to send a put
to the token service.
There's nothing to modify about a token other than its expiration time,
But we don't want to allow users to set an arbitrary expiration time,
so instead we only allow them to send an EXTEND equals true payload.
If they send extent equals true,
we will extend the token out to one hour from this moment,
and there is no other field that they're allowed to update.
And so optional data is not so.
We want to get to things out of this payload,
and I d and extend we can grab.
The last time that we got something out of a payload case that in here change this to I D.
And again the length should be 20 and we're gonna copy this down and use it as a base for
validating the extent.
But that should be data payload.
Extend type is Boolean and really the only valid value for data payload extend is true.
So it's either that or anything else is false.
E.
So now we want to say that if there's an i d and extend it was true,
then we'll continue on logic.
Otherwise,
anything else is a invalid payload.
So we want to call back 400.
The error is missing required fields.
Four fields are invalid.
For example,
if they would have sent extend equals false,
that's not a valid payload.
The only thing that you can do to extend is center.
That's true if they date if they sent I d and extend and the first thing you want to do is
look up the token.
So we want to use our same helpers before data read from the tokens collection based on I D
.
And it's going to send us back and air and token data,
and we want to say that if there is no air and there is token data,
let's continue.
Otherwise we're going to call back 400.
There specified Token does not exist.
But if we did get the token data back,
first thing we need to do is check to make sure that token isn't already expired.
We only want to let users extend.
A token that is still currently active is a lot like when you're on a Web page,
and as long as you keep active it will continue letting you keep your session alive.
But as soon as that session dies,
there's nothing you can do to reactivate it except locking and again,
in our case,
getting a whole new token.
So as long as they still have an active session,
they can send a put to the service to extend their session even further.
But once the session is dead,
it's Dad.
There's nothing they can do.
So we want to make sure that if token data expires is greater than date now,
then we want to continue with the logic.
Otherwise they can't extend it.
So we want to say Colback 400 here,
the token has already expired and cannot be extended.
But if everything is fine with the expiration now,
we want to set the expiration an hour from now.
So token data expires.
Equals date.
Now then,
the same thing we did before 1000 times 60 times 60.
And we need to persist.
This two disc,
so store the new updates.
Data update,
tokens collection.
Identify the file by D Overriding data with this new token data and we're expecting back in
air we want to continue on if there is no air and call back 200.
Otherwise,
we want to call back 500 here.
Could not update the token expiration.
All right,
so that is tokens put.
Let's try that out and see if we can get to work.
I'm gonna start the at back up.
Looks like I have a little air here online to A to I should have wrapped this in object,
and I didn't.
But before we start this up,
let's just fix this little typo expire.
Says one s all right.
Now let's start this up,
okay?
And I'm gonna go back and create a new token using the same users before,
so I have created a token.
It ends in t 585 If we go to the tokens for order,
we can see it right there.
It expires and something ending in 8389 I'm going to craft a new request,
saying that extend equals true and sending that I d.
For this time it's a put.
I got a 200 back and you can see it's a different expiration time.
It's a time further in the future,
so right now it's 0757 Extended again.
Now it's 3137 So every time I send that it will extend it a little bit.
Let's kill this server,
and now we can do the last method in the token service,
which is delete.
Delete is going to be similar to users.
Where they require data is I D.
Optional data is none,
and it's so much like users that where it is going to copy some of logic from users,
deleting a token would be the same as locking out basically.
So I'm a copy this from users.
Check that the I D is valid change phone to i d.
The link should equal 20 continue on.
If there isn't.
I d this time.
Look up the token data re tokens by D If air and data data delete tokens by D and call back
in 200 and modify these messages,
but everything else is the same.
All right,
so let's start it up again and try to delete this token.
So it's I'm just gonna do we get requests.
First we can see that this token exists.
I'm a change this to a delete.
We've got a 200 which means if I try to do it get again,
it should be a 44 which we see there.
And now that is gone.
That token no longer exists,
so delete is working just fine.
But there are a couple two DUIs in this file from an earlier lecture which had to do with
authentication,
for example,
on lee let authenticated users delete their object only let them update their object,
only let them get their own object.
So we need to actually update those functions with a new helper that weaken.
Define right now,
now that tokens exists and authentication as the possibility to exist.
So we're gonna write a general purpose function here Verify It's given i d is currently
valid for a given user to specify.
I mean,
a given token,
I d So we want to take in a token I d and spit back tour false that the token is valid for
the user that we're checking against.
So we're gonna call this handlers tokens verify token.
And this will be a function that takes in an idea of a token,
the phone number of a user and a call back.
And it should check that this i d of a token works for this phone number.
So we first want to look up the token.
So data read from tokens based on I d.
It's gonna give us back in air and token data.
We want to continue if there is no air and there is talking data,
otherwise we can call back false.
If we're continuing,
we want to check that the token is for the giving user and has not expired.
So we do that by saying,
If token data dot phone equals the phone number provided and token data expires is greater
then date.
Now then everything's fine.
Callback.
True.
Other ones call back force because either the token news expired or it wasn't for that
phone number.
So now we have a general purpose function that can compare a token I d toe a phone number
and see if they match up.
So let's go ahead and incorporate that into our functions above that start the first time
we used it,
which is handlers users get.
So I'm gonna take out this to do whenever this to do,
said Onley.
Let unauthenticated users access their object.
So that's what we're implementing right now.
So underneath phone before looking up the user,
I want to do a couple things.
I want to get the token from the headers.
Since this is a authenticated request,
it should be expected that any clients sending that request would have included Token
equals this as a header in that request and so we can grab the token from there.
So our token equals type of data headers token,
equal string data,
headers,
gang core falls.
So,
in other words,
get the token.
If they sent it and they put it in the headers,
otherwise default to false.
And now we want to verify that the given token from the headers is valid for the phone
number.
In other words,
the phone number that the user is specifying they get request.
So we want to say handlers,
tokens verify token the function we just created,
and we're gonna send it the token i d the phone number and we're gonna expect back the
outcome of token is valid.
Now,
we only want to continue on.
If token is valid,
that's where the rest of logic is gonna go.
Otherwise we're going to call back four or three to the user saying,
Yeah,
missing required token in header four token is invalid.
And then we're going to cut all this stuff and place it within this if all right,
so now good users get is unauthenticated service To recap the way that this is working is
the requester is sending a get request,
asking for information about this phone number.
So what we're doing is we're saying all right,
you want information about this phone number?
Let's check your token that you're sending and check that if we look up that token,
I d.
That matches the phone number you're asking about,
because the only way you could have a token whose data references that phone number is if
you created that token because you had the phone number and a password of the user.
So in other words,
we're validating that you are you before we give you information about you.
Now we can basically do the same thing,
and users put,
we want to use the same logic of getting the token from the headers.
This time,
we're gonna place it down here,
and we want to use basically the same logic all over again.
I'm just gonna close this if and we want that else to call back the same four or three that
we did above then I'm going to place all of this logic inside of this.
If so,
we're doing the same kind of check that we did above.
No,
we want to do the same basic thing for users.
Delete.
Let me just get rid of this to do because we don't need to do it anymore.
So I'm gonna copy these two things getting away to this to do because that's what we're
doing right now.
I'm saying if there is a phone number and I'm gonna start the token validation closing this
all up.
I'm going to grab the same four or three air from above.
Put that in the bottom of the else,
and I'm going to place the rest of this logic inside token is valid.
All right,
so now we've modified users get put and elite so that only a user who has previously
created about a token could do any of those things.
Let's go ahead and try that out.
Okay?
I'm gonna go back to creating a token for this user.
All right?
I got a new token.
Has this I d.
Now I'm going to try to do a get request to users with this phone number,
and I should get a four or three because I haven't included the token.
But when I modify the headers say the token equals this That new token I just created and I
send Matt along.
Now I'm getting it 200 back,
and I'm getting all the data,
so it looks like the token validation is working.
Fine.
All right,
so now we can move on to the next lecture